OSDOCS-9969: netobserv cli (#75055)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-netobserv-cli-reference.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * observability/network_observability/configuring_operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="network-observability-netobserv-cli-commands_{context}"]
= Network Observability CLI commands

.Syntax
`netobserv [flows|packets|cleanup] [filters]`
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
.Basic commands
|===
|Option| Description

| `flows`
| Capture flows information. You can specify an optional interface name as a filter, such as 'netobserv flows br-ex'.

| `packets`
| Capture packets from a specific protocol or port pair, such as 'netobserv packets tcp,80'.

| `cleanup`
| Remove netobserv components.

| `version`
| Print the software version.

> | `--help`

Reviewer: there is `help` 
```sh
./build/oc-netobserv help

Netobserv allows you to capture flow and packets from your cluster.
Find more information at: https://github.com/netobserv/network-observability-cli/

Syntax: netobserv [flows|packets|cleanup] [filters]

options:
  flows      Capture flows information. You can specify an optionnal interface name as filter such as 'netobserv flows br-ex'.
        Options:
          --interfaces: interfaces to monitor
          --enable_pktdrop: enable packet drop (default: true)
          --enable_dns: enable DNS tracking (default: true)
          --enable_rtt: enable RTT tracking (default: true)
          --enable_filter: enable flow filter (default: false)
          --direction: flow filter direction
          --cidr: flow filter CIDR (default: 0.0.0.0/0)
          --protocol: flow filter protocol (default: TCP)
          --sport: flow filter source port
          --dport: flow filter destination port
          --port: flow filter port
          --sport_range: flow filter source port range
          --dport_range: flow filter destination port range
          --port_range: flow filter port range
          --icmp_type: ICMP type
          --icmp_code: ICMP code
          --peer_ip: peer IP
          --action: flow filter action (default: Accept)
  packets    Capture packets from a specific protocol/port pair such as 'netobserv packets tcp,80'.
  cleanup    Remove netobserv components.
  version    Print software version.
```

Author: Hmm ok I'm not sure where I got the `--` from, but I will change `help`

Reviewer: My doc is n cli has it it needs to go

| Show help.
|===

> .Network Observability feature enablement

Reviewer: all the following options are `flows` subcommands as showing in the help
no relevant for other main options

Author: Gotcha, yeah I think I need to put a header here and maybe mention in the Basic commands table that for more information about Flows sub-commands, see this table.

[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
.Basic commands
|===
|Option| Description

| `flows`
| Capture flows information. For subcommands, see the "Flows subcommands" table on this page. 

| `packets`
| Capture packets from a specific protocol or port pair, such as 'netobserv packets --filter=tcp,80'. For more information about packet capture, see the "Packet capture subcommand" section on this page.

| `cleanup`
| Remove netobserv components.

| `version`
| Print the software version.

| `help`
| Show help.
|===

== Feature commands
The Network Observability Operator features can only be enabled when capturing flows. They do not work with packet capture.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv flows [<feature_command>] [<subcommands>]
----

.Network Observability feature enablement commands
|===
|Option| Description| Possible values| Default

| `--help`
| Show help
| N/A
| N/A

| `--enable_pktdrop` 	
| Enable packet drop
| `true, false`
| `false`

| `--enable_rtt`
| Enable round trip time 	
| `true`, `false` 	
| `false`

| `--enable_dns`
| Enable DNS tracking 	
| `true`, `false` 	

> | false

Reviewer 2: The quotes above are not consistent for all features

Author: 💯 sorry about that

| `--interfaces`
| Interfaces to match on the flow e.g., "eth0,eth1" 	
| ""
|===

== Flow capture subcommands
Flow capture has mandatory commands and optional commands. 

.`oc netobserv flows` syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv flows [<feature_command>] [<subcommands>]
----

> .Flow capture subcommands

Reviewer 2: This table looks funky
<img width="794" alt="Screenshot 2024-05-16 at 11 04 16 AM" src="https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/65666095/eccc316d-bb05-4e24-827d-cb270388e448">

Author: :/ what noooo I thought I fixed this!! Argh!!

Author: Oh okay, I think there were some values without a default, and because I didn't have an empty cell there with a "-" the table was wonk'd out. Do you know if any of those empty defaults _actually_ have defaults @Amoghrd ?

![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/77501157/21a0610d-846c-4030-82e9-1addead30aeb)

Reviewer 2: nope they dont have any defaults AFAIK. even protocol does not have any default. @msherif1234 Could you confirm?

Reviewer: Yes it used to be tcp but now it has no default the doc in cli repo should be up to date if you to cross reference

Author: Ok I adjusted the TCP default

| `Accept`, `Reject`
| yes
| Accept

| `--cidr`
| CIDR to match on the flow. for example `1.1.1.0/24`, `1::100/64`, or `0.0.0.0/0` 
| yes
| `0.0.0.0/0`

| `--protocol`
| Protocol to match on the flow
| TCP, UDP, SCTP, ICMP, ICMPv6 	
| no
| `TCP`

| `--direction`
| Direction to match on the flow
| `Ingress`, `Egress`
| no

| `--dport`
| Destination port to match on the flow, for example `80`, `443`, or `49051`
| no

| `--sport`
| Source port to match on the flow, for example `80`, `443`, or `49051`
| no

| `--port`
| Port to match on the flow, for example `80`, `443`, or `49051`
| no 
|

| `--sport_range`
| Source port range to match on the flow, for example `80-100` or `443-445`
| no 	
| 

| `--dport_range` 	
| Destination port range to match on the flow, for example `80-100`
| no
|

| `--port_range`
| Port range to match on the flow, for example `80-100` or `443-445`
| no
|

| `--icmp_type`
| ICMP type to match on the flow, for example `8` or `13`
| no
|

| `--icmp_code`
| ICMP code to match on the flow, for example `0` or `1`
| no
|  	

| `--peer_ip`
| Peer IP to match on the flow, for example `1.1.1.1` or `1::1`
| no 	
|
|===

== Packet capture subcommand

> You can filter on port and protocol for packet capture data. 

Reviewer 2: can remove word `data`

.`oc netobserv packets` syntax
[source,terminal]
----
oc netobserv packets [<subcommand>]
----
.Packet capture subcommand
` --filter`:: Enable packet capture filtering. Options for packet capture filtering are protocol (tcp, udp) and port. You can specify filtering options using a comma as delimeter. For example `--filter=tcp,80` specifies the `tcp` protocol and port `80`.

> 

Reviewer 2: There's a random `in` at EOF. Dont see it here😂
<img width="790" alt="Screenshot 2024-05-16 at 11 07 01 AM" src="https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/65666095/ce18a4cc-4f47-4768-aaae-38706a41c27b">

Author: Oh I see, it was in the Assembly file that the reference module is included in. It looks like I started typing "include" there or something.

Author: 🤦‍♀️ I'm sorry I'm going too fast between PRs 😓

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * observability/network_observability/netobserv-cli-reference.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="network-observability-netobserv-cli-commands_{context}"]
= Network Observability CLI reference 
The Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) is a CLI tool for capturing flow data and packet data for further analysis.

.`oc netobserv` syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv [<command>] [<feature_command>] [<subcommands>] <1>
----
1. Feature commands can only be used with the `oc netobserv flows`. They cannot be used with `oc netobserv packets`.

[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
.Basic commands
|===
|Option| Description

| `flows`

> | Capture flows information. For subcommands, see the "Flows subcommands" table on this page. 

Reviewer 3: The table is named slightly different than this. Also, for the packet line, you use the section not the title. So I'd pick one and be consistent between the two.

Also, I think you can also remove "on this page"

```suggestion
| Capture flows information. For subcommands, see the "Flow capture subcommands" section. 
```

| `packets`

> | Capture packets from a specific protocol or port pair, such as 'netobserv packets --filter=tcp,80'. For more information about packet capture, see the "Packet capture subcommand" section on this page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Capture packets from a specific protocol or port pair, such as `netobserv packets --filter=tcp,80`. For more information about packet capture, see the "Packet capture subcommand" section.
```

| `cleanup`
| Remove netobserv components.

| `version`
| Print the software version.

| `help`
| Show help.
|===

> == Feature commands

Reviewer 3: Needs an ID

The Network Observability Operator features can only be enabled when capturing flows. They do not work with packet capture.

> .Syntax

Reviewer 3: Maybe consider a more descriptive title, like the other syntax sections below do?

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv flows [<feature_command>] [<subcommands>]
----

> .Network Observability feature enablement commands

Reviewer 3: These are options/flags not commands, right? Perhaps change "commands" to "options"?

|===
|Option| Description| Possible values| Default

| `--help`
| Show help
| N/A
| N/A

| `--enable_pktdrop` 	

> | Enable packet drop

Reviewer 3: Consider whether these should all have periods. The descriptions in the commands table above does.

| `true`, `false`
| `false`

| `--enable_rtt`
| Enable round trip time 	
| `true`, `false` 	
| `false`

> | `--enable_dns`

Reviewer 3: Just a random observation throughout these tables - just wondering if the commands/options should be alphabetical?

Author: They're more meant to be grouped by the order of importance in the steps. Like the Flow capture commands, technically action should be first, but then you have to use --enable feature before you use action. I guess, the feature ones could be grouped alphabetically, but the flow capture one I wasn't sure if it made sense to group alphabetically.

| Enable DNS tracking 	
| `true`, `false` 	
| `false`

> | `--interfaces`

Reviewer 3: Oddly enough I'm not seeing this option in the preview build for some reason... :shrug:

Author: I think I was missing a row here. I added it.

> | Interfaces to match on the flow e.g., "eth0,eth1" 	

Reviewer 3: Per ISG shouldn't use e.g.

| "<interface>"
|===

> == Flow capture subcommands

Reviewer 3: Needs an ID

> Flow capture has mandatory commands and optional commands. 

Reviewer 3: Again, these are options, not commands, right? So should update this wording here

Author: yes you're right these are options

.`oc netobserv flows` syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv flows [<feature_command>] [<subcommands>]
----

.Flow capture subcommands
|===

> |Option| Description| Possible values| Mandatory| Default

Reviewer 3: A few of the same commands from the above tables could be applied here as well

Author: You can use the feature options with flow capture, if that's what you mean. so yeah I should note it here, since I noted it above. Good thing to notice.

| `--enable_filter`
| Enable flow filter
| `true`, `false` 	

> | yes 

Reviewer 3: Per ISG I believe Yes and No should be capitalized throughout

| `false`

| `--action`
| Action to apply on the flow
| `Accept`, `Reject`
| yes
| `Accept`

| `--cidr`
| CIDR to match on the flow. 
| `1.1.1.0/24`, `1::100/64`, or `0.0.0.0/0`
| yes
| `0.0.0.0/0`

| `--protocol`
| Protocol to match on the flow
| `TCP`, `UDP`, `SCTP`, `ICMP`, `ICMPv6` 	
| no

> | -

Reviewer 3: In above tables you use "N/A" for not applicable/no value. Just wondering if it should be consistent between all of them?

Author: Yes I changed that I added a `-` instead of N/A

| `--direction`
| Direction to match on the flow
| `Ingress`, `Egress`
| no
| -

| `--dport`
| Destination port to match on the flow

> | `80`, `443`, or `49051`

Reviewer 3: Some places you use "or", and others you just list some of the values. Recommend to be consistent between using it in all of them or none of them (just comma-separate it).

Author: Addressed to make consistently `or`

| no
| -

| `--sport`
| Source port to match on the flow
| `80`, `443`, or `49051`
| no
| -

| `--port`
| Port to match on the flow
| `80`, `443`, or `49051`
| no 
| -

| `--sport_range`
| Source port range to match on the flow
| `80-100` or `443-445`
| no 	
| -

| `--dport_range` 	
| Destination port range to match on the flow
| `80-100`
| no
| -

| `--port_range`
| Port range to match on the flow
| `80-100` or `443-445`
| no
| -

| `--icmp_type`
| ICMP type to match on the flow
| `8` or `13`
| no
| -

| `--icmp_code`
| ICMP code to match on the flow
| `0` or `1`
| no
| - 	

| `--peer_ip`
| Peer IP to match on the flow
| `1.1.1.1` or `1::1`
| no 	
| -
|===

> == Packet capture subcommand

Author: I left it singular because its just one, but maybe this sets up for further subcommands if I go ahead and pluralize it.

You can filter on port and protocol for packet capture data. 

.`oc netobserv packets` syntax
[source,terminal]
----

> oc netobserv packets [<subcommand>]

Reviewer 3: Missing prompt

```suggestion
$ oc netobserv packets [<subcommand>]
```

----
.Packet capture subcommand

> ` --filter`:: Enable packet capture filtering. Options for packet capture filtering are protocol (tcp, udp) and port. You can specify filtering options using a comma as delimeter. For example `--filter=tcp,80` specifies the `tcp` protocol and port `80`.

Reviewer 2: Need to mention that `--filter` is mandatory

Author: Addressed

> ` --filter`:: A mandator subcommand to enable packet capture filtering. Options for packet capture filtering are protocol (tcp, udp) and port. You can specify filtering options using a comma as delimeter. For example `--filter=tcp,80` specifies the `tcp` protocol and port `80`.

Reviewer 2: missing letter y in mandatory word

Author: 🤦‍♀️ I'm sorry I'm going too fast between PRs 😓

Reviewer 2: No worries

> ` --filter`:: A mandatory subcommand to enable packet capture filtering. Options for packet capture filtering are protocol (tcp, udp) and port. You can specify filtering options using a comma as delimeter. For example `--filter=tcp,80` specifies the `tcp` protocol and port `80`.

Reviewer 3: The backticks are showing / not rendering as monospace.

However, I'd recommend putting this in a table, so that it's in the same format as the flow capture section. I realize there's only one, so it might seem overkill, but I think it'd be better to be consistent.

Also, should "tcp" and "udp" be in backticks?

Author: Okay I debated whether or not it was overkill too. I'll take your advice and do the table.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * observability/network_observability/netobserv-cli-reference.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="network-observability-netobserv-cli-reference_{context}"]
= oc netobserv CLI reference 
The Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) is a CLI tool for capturing flow data and packet data for further analysis.

.`oc netobserv` syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv [<command>] [<feature_option>] [<command_options>] <1>
----
<1> Feature options can only be used with the `oc netobserv flows` command. They cannot be used with the `oc netobserv packets` command.

[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
.Basic commands
|===
|Command| Description

| `flows`
| Capture flows information. For subcommands, see the "Flow capture subcommands" table. 

| `packets`
| Capture packets from a specific protocol or port pair, such as `netobserv packets --filter=tcp,80`. For more information about packet capture, see the "Packet capture subcommand" table.

| `cleanup`
| Remove the Network Observability CLI components.

| `version`
| Print the software version.

| `help`
| Show help.
|===

> [id="cli-reference-feature-commands"]
> == Network Observability Operator feature options
> The Network Observability Operator features can only be enabled when capturing flows. They do not work with packet capture.

Reviewer 4: I think we should either clarify or get rid of that mention.

Here is my clarification suggestion:
```suggestion
[id="cli-reference-feature-commands"]
== Network Observability enrichment
The Network Observability enrichment to display zone, node, owner and resource names including optionnal features about packet drop, DNS latencies and round trip time can only be enabled when capturing flows. These will not appear in packet capture pcap output file.
```
Feel free to adapt

Author: I like this actually a lot better than invoking the Operator here. Good idea, thanks Julien.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv flows [<feature_option>] [<subcommands>]
----

.Network Observability Operator feature enablement options
|===
|Option| Description| Possible values| Default

| `--enable_pktdrop` 	
| Enable packet drop.
| `true`, `false`
| `false`

| `--enable_rtt`
| Enable round trip time. 	
| `true`, `false` 	
| `false`

| `--enable_dns`
| Enable DNS tracking. 	
| `true`, `false` 	
| `false`

| `--help`
| Show help.
| -
| -

| `--interfaces`
| Interfaces to match on the flow. For example, `"eth0,eth1"`.
| `"<interface>"`
| -
|===

[id="cli-reference-flow-capture-options"]
== Flow capture options

> Flow capture has mandatory commands and optional commands. You can use the flow capture options when using the Network Observability Operator feature options.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Flow capture allows additionnal options such as enabling eBPF features and filtering. These are optionnal but recommended to adapt to your needs.
```

Author: OK I updated to this: 
> Flow capture has mandatory commands as well as additional options, such as enabling extra features about packet drops, DNS latencies, Round-trip time, and filtering.

| No
| -

| `--direction`
| Direction to match on the flow
| `Ingress`, `Egress`
| No
| -

| `--dport`
| Destination port to match on the flow.
| `80`, `443`, or `49051`
| no
| -

| `--sport`
| Source port to match on the flow.
| `80`, `443`, or `49051`
| No
| -

| `--port`
| Port to match on the flow.
| `80`, `443`, or `49051`
| No 
| -

| `--sport_range`
| Source port range to match on the flow.
| `80-100` or `443-445`
| No 	
| -

| `--dport_range` 	
| Destination port range to match on the flow.
| `80-100`
| No
| -

| `--port_range`
| Port range to match on the flow.
| `80-100` or `443-445`
| No
| -

| `--icmp_type`
| ICMP type to match on the flow.
| `8` or `13`
| No
| -

| `--icmp_code`
| ICMP code to match on the flow.
| `0` or `1`
| No
| - 	

| `--peer_ip`
| Peer IP to match on the flow.
| `1.1.1.1` or `1::1`
| No 	
| -
|===

[id="cli-reference-packet-capture-options"]
== Packet capture options
You can filter on port and protocol for packet capture data. 

.`oc netobserv packets` syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv packets [<option>]
----

.Packet capture filter option
|===
|Option| Description| Possible values| Mandatory| Default

> | ` --filter`

Reviewer 5: I think the extra space is messing up the rendering here:
```suggestion
| `--filter`
```

| Enable packet capture filtering.

> | `tcp`, `udp` or `port` You can specify filtering options using a comma as delimeter. For example `--filter=tcp,80` specifies the `tcp` protocol and port `80`.

Reviewer 5: Should `port` be `<port>`? Since they seem to have to specify an actual port.

Also some punctuation fixes:
```suggestion
| `tcp`, `udp`, or `<port>`. You can specify filtering options using a comma as delimeter. For example, `--filter=tcp,80` specifies the `tcp` protocol and port `80`.
```
Altho probably could drop the `--filter` part too, since it's assumed, and would make the value fit better in the cell:
```suggestion
| `tcp`, `udp`, or `<port>`. You can specify filtering options using a comma as delimeter. For example, `tcp,80` specifies the `tcp` protocol and port `80`.
```

Author: Yeah good call about the port <port> since its a user-specified. And good idea to drop the `--filter`.
